---
title: Prayer Intro
description: Prayer for the Purpose of Godliness
month: april
week: 0
date: 2024-04-01
---

Richard Foster states in his work *Celebration of Discipline*, "Prayer catapults us onto the frontier of the spiritual life. Of all the Spiritual Disciplines, prayer is the most central because it ushers us into perpetual communion with the Father." It becomes our lifeline as we navigate through this life. However, it is one of the main spiritual disciplines that is neglected or reduced to tradition.

Scripture is full of examples of the importance of prayer and how it can connect us to the will of God.

- It is mentioned that Jesus modeled prayer through his lifestyle as shown in the gospel of Mark, "And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed." (Mark 1:35 ESV). 
- David demonstrates his commitment to prayer, "O God, you are my God; earnestly I seek you;" (Psalm 63:1 ESV). 
- The apostles give themselves continually to prayer and the ministry of the word,"But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word." (Acts 6:4 ESV) 

Prayer was highlighted in the lives of many "spiritual giants" in church history. 

- "I have so much business I cannot get on without spending three hours daily in prayer." – Martin Luther 
- "God does nothing but in answer to prayer" – John Wesley 
- "I love to be alone I my cottage, where I can spend much time in prayer. I set apart this day for secret fasting and prayer to God." – David Brainerd 

While the spiritual practice of prayer is a lifelong endeavor, the Christian should not expect immediate results as it is a practice to develop. Prayer is a practice grows as the Christian grows. The more practice and time devoted, the deeper it can go. As with many other spiritual practices, the Christian can experience highs and lows, which can often lead to mountain-top experiences or disappointments.

To develop a strong prayer life, there are 3 main truths that we must be known. 

1. **Prayer is Expected**. God expects us to pray as it is one of the primary ways to commune with God. Jesus models prayer through is life and even provides a structure to how we should pray (Matthew 6:9-13). 

2. **Prayer is Learned**. The ability to pray does not naturally happen, but it is a practice that is developed. Similar to how we communicate in other relationships,prayer requires intentionality and practice. It is learned through repetition and being vulnerable. We can also learn how to pray from other believers. Prayer is meant to be practiced individually and corporately. It is how the body of Christ interacts with God. 

1. **Prayers are Answered**. The practice of prayer has a purpose. It is simply not a ritual, but a practice that accomplishes much in the life of the Christian. It goes beyond submitting requests (while that is a part of it), it is, as Richard Foster states, "the central avenue God uses to transform us." Prayer allows us to seethe faithfulness of God. 

"What is prayer, then, in the fullest sense? Prayer is continuing a conversation that God has started through his Word and his grace, which eventually becomes a full encounter with him. . . . The power of our prayers, then, lies not primarily in our effort and striving,or in any technique, but rather in our knowledge of God." – Tim Keller 

"The great tragedy of life is not unanswered prayer, but unoffered prayer." – F.B. Meyer in Secret of Guidance 

## Additional Resources 

*Prayer* by Timothy Keller  
*The Ministry of Intercessory Prayer* by Andrew Murray  
*With Christ in the School of Prayer* by Andrew Murray  
*A Praying Life* by Paul E. Miller  
*Praying the Bible* by Donald S. Whitney  
*Prayer: Finding the Heart’s True Home* by Richard J. Foster  

*Habits of Grace* by David Mathis  
*Celebration of Discipline* by Richard J. Foster  
*A Long Obedience in the Same Direction* by Eugene H. Petersen  
*Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life* by Donald S. Whitney  
*The Spirit of the Disciplines* by Dallas Willard  