---
title: Prayer Week 1
description: Prayer is Expected
month: april
week: 1
date: 2024-04-01
---

## Why is Prayer Expected?

"What is prayer, then, in the fullest sense? Prayer is continuing a conversation that God has started through his Word and his grace, which eventually becomes a full encounter with him. . . . The power of our prayers, then, lies not primarily in our effort and striving, or in any technique, but rather in our knowledge of God." – Tim Keller 

"The great tragedy of life is not unanswered prayer, but unoffered prayer." – F.B. Meyer in Secret of Guidance 

The Lord Jesus Christ, with all authority and with all love – who expects us to pray. These excerpts from His words show that He Himself expects us to pray. 

Matthew 6:5, "And when you pray,…"  
Matthew 6:6, "but when you pray,…"  
Matthew 6:7, "And when you pray,…"  
Matthew 6:9, "Pray then like this:…"  
Luke 11:9, "Ask…; seek…; knock."  
Luke 18:1, "And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought to always to pray."

Colossians 4:2 says, "Continue steadfastly in prayer." When you make something a priority, when you sacrifice for it, when you give time to it, you know you are devoted to it. God expects Christians to be devoted to prayer. 

I Thessalonians 5:17 states, "Pray without ceasing." While "continue steadfastly in prayer" emphasizes prayer as an activity, "pray without ceasing" reminds us that prayer is also a relationship. Prayer is in one sense an expression of Christian’s unbroken relationship with the Father. 

So, we must see the expectation to pray not only as a divine summons, but also a as a royal invitation. As the write of Hebrews told us, "Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need" (Hebrews 4:16). 

1. What do Matthew 6:5-7,9; Luke 11:9, and Luke 18:1 teach about Jesus’ view of prayer? 

2. Have you ever felt that prayer was more *obligation* than *opportunity*? If so, why? If not, why not? 

3. I Thessalonians 5:17 tells Christians to "pray without ceasing." Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life, page 82, says that "praying without ceasing means you never really stop conversing with God; you simply have frequent interruptions." Do you agree with this definition? Why or why not? 

## Read and Reflect 

Read Colossians 4:2-4 and 1 Thessalonians 5:17.

1. How might you apply Colossians 4:2 and 1 Thessalonians 5:17 in the midst of your busy schedule? 
2. Why did Jesus pray in "desolate places" (Luke 5:16)?
3. Describe a time when God answered your specific prayer.
4. Why should your praying be governed by the truth of Scripture rather than by our feelings? 

## Group Discussion 

**Mark your calendar:** April 18th we will host a self guided Good Friday prayer station in the sanctuary at the YMCA. Join us anytime between 7am - 5pm to walk through the story of Jesus’ crucifixion with self guided prayer. Our evening Good Friday worship service will begin at 7pm at the YMCA. 

1. Discuss within your group what your experience has been with prayer. What did you learn, growing up, about prayer and how was it practiced in your home?
2. What priority do you give prayer in your life? 
3. Describe a time when God answered your specific prayer.
4. Discuss within your group what prayer should/could look like. How long and often? Components of prayer? Consider Adoration – Confession – Thanksgiving – Supplication. 