---
title: Prayer Week 2
description: Prayer is Learned
month: april
week: 2
date: 2024-04-07
---

## How is Prayer Learned?

A child of God gradually learns to pray like this in the same way that a growing child learns to talk. Note the ways we learn how to pray.

- **By praying.** If you have ever learned a foreign language, you know that you learn it best when you actually have to speak it. The same is true with the "foreign language" of prayer. The best way to learn how to pray is to pray. 
- **By meditating on Scripture.** Meditation is the missing link between Bible intake and prayer. Too often disjointed, the two should be united. At least two Scripture teach this by example. David prayed in Psalm 5:1, "Give ear to my words, O LROD; consider my groaning." The Hebrew word rendered as "groaning" may also be translated "meditation."
- **By praying with others.** The disciples learned to pray, not only by hearing Jesus teach about prayer, but also by being with Him when He prayed. In a similar way, we can learn to pray by praying with other people who can model true prayer for us. 
- **By reading about prayer.** Reading about prayer instead of praying simply will not do. But reading about prayer in addition to praying enriches your education in prayer. 

1. Has anyone ever taught you about prayer? If so, who? If not, who might you seek out to teach you?
2. What role, according to John 16:13, does the Holy Spirit play in your prayer life?
3. How has this lack of teaching affected the church as a whole? Your life? The lives of others you know?

## Read and Reflect

Read Matthew 6:9-13.

1. In Matthew 6:9, how does this phrase shape our understanding of God’s character and our relationship with him? 
2. What does "give us today our daily bread" mean, and how does it relate to our material needs and our spiritual needs? 
3. How does the Lord’s Prayer structure its requests, and what does this structure tell us about what God prioritizes?

## Group Discussion

1. Where and when do you find it easiest to pray?
2. What are some of the challenges or obstacles that make it difficult to pray regularly? 
3. What are some ways we can make prayer more engaging and meaningful?
4. How can we discern God's will through prayer?
5. Is it okay to pray for the same thing repeatedly? 
6. How can we learn to trust God more fully through prayer?
7. How can we learn to be more honest with God in prayer? 

**Mark your calendar:** April 18th we will host a self guided Good Friday prayer station in the sanctuary at the YMCA. Join us anytime between 7am - 5pm to walk through the story of Jesus’ crucifixion with self guided prayer. Our evening Good Friday worship service will begin at 7pm at the YMCA. 

## Further Discussion

8. How would you describe the relationship between biblical meditation and prayer? (See Psalm 5:1; 19:14) 
9. Thomas Manton, a Puritan preacher, wrote, "It is rashness to pray and not to mediate. What we take in by the word we digest by meditation and let out by prayer." What is your response to this thought? 
10.Why do you think more churches today do not teach about the relationship between meditation and prayer? 
11. What is the difference between learning "principles of prayer" and learning "phrases for prayer"? 
12. What book(s) on prayer have you or others in the group found helpful? In what ways? 
