---
title: Prayer Week 3
description: Prayers are Answered
month: april
week: 3
date: 2024-04-14
---

## Read and Reflect

Try to read this promise of Jesus as though it were for the first time: Matthew 7:7-8.

1. Discuss the following phrases:
    1. "Ask, and it will be given to you."
    2. "Seek, and you will find."
    3. "Knock, and it will be opened to you."
    4. "For everyone who asks receives."
    5. "The one who seeks finds."
    6. "To the one who knocks it will be opened."
2. Andrew Murray wrote, "If you ask and receive not, it must be because there is something amiss or wanting in the prayer." Do you agree with this statement? Explain.
3. Discuss how the following may affect answer to prayer:
    1. Impatience/lack of perseverance in prayer
    2. Selfish motives
    3. Unrepentant sin in your life
    4. Unwillingness to accept that God may answer in ways that are not obvious 5. Asking for things that are outside the will of God or don’t glorify Him 

## How do you know if God is answering your prayers?

Read Luke 18:1.

1. What are some of the ways you have seen God answer your prayers?
2. What are some of the ways you have seen God not answer your prayers in the way you expected? 
3. How do you respond to prayers that don't seem to be answered? 
4. What does it mean to pray "in Jesus' name"? 
5. How can we pray more effectively?
6. Where and when do you find it easiest to pray? 
7. Why do you think God sometimes answers prayers and other times doesn't?
8. How do you reconcile the idea that God is all-powerful with the fact that some prayers don't seem to be answered? 
9. What does it mean to trust God's timing and His will in the face of unanswered prayers?
10. How can we learn to discern God's will in our lives through prayer?

**Mark your calendar:** April 18th we will host a self guided Good Friday prayer station in the sanctuary at the YMCA. Join us anytime between 7am - 5pm to walk through the story of Jesus’ crucifixion with self guided prayer. Our evening Good Friday worship service will begin at 7pm at the YMCA. 

## Further Discussion

1. At which times in your life have you felt that prayer didn’t work, that God wasn’t listening? 
2. Does persistent prayer ten to develop deeper gratitude toward God? Faith in God? 
3. In what ways does the enemy sidetrack your prayer life? Be specific.
4. Think about a time when you experienced the joy of answered prayer. What did you learn during that time that you might apply to your situation today?
5. If we do not preserve in prayer, what are we demonstrated that we believe about God’s love for us? About His promises to us? 
6. How would you describe the relationship between biblical meditation and prayer?
